System requirements specifications document

Title: online Assessment Test for CDAC

Team: Faculty,course coordinator,CDAC director,CDAC management Team,student.

Objective:
	1.The online exam portal for CDAC.
	2.Students and internal users (CDAC staff) through a single Gateway using internet.It will enable CDAC to conduct online exam for students.

Scope:
	1.This system allows student to give exams online via secured network.
	2.Enabling fair exam for each and every student.
	3.Student can log in with their id,name and institute id to give the exam and can view their result and their Institutes can view the result of their students.

Functional Requirements:

Student:
	1.Student can log in by Id anf password given by CDAC.
	2.Multiple students can give exam through this site.
	3.Interface of software to provide the interaction between students,admins and teachers.
	4.Software provides platform and saves the time and also saves the record.
	5.For every question student can select,mark for review,clear,submit,multiple selection for answer which can be viewed from a palatte provided with different colours
	6.Student can navigate to any question or section.
	7.verification of student by capturing live photo and alloting a system for exam.
  	8.Question can be in the form of mcqs,fill in the blanks,true or false.
	9.Software auto submits the exam after the time runs out.
	10.After submitting exam software provides exam summary.

Admin:
	1.Admin can login into the system 
	2.Admin can send result to specific student.
	3.Admin can add,edit and delete the questions
	4.Creating questions
	5.Posting Questions
	6.Marking correct answers within the given options.
	7.Set marks


Non Functional requirements:

Security:
->The database may get crashed at any certain time due to virus oroperating system failure. Therefore, it is required to take thedatabase backup.

Reliability:
->We need to regularly back up data and have a plan to get things back on track if something breaks.

Availibilty
->The system should be available 99.9% of the time.

Maintainability
->The website can be maintained in present or future. It will be easy to operate new requirements in the individual modules.

Accessibility
->The system should have a user-friendly interface with clear navigation, legible fonts, and appropriate color contrast to accommodate users with visuals.

Durability
->Ensure that user data, exam content, and system configurations are reliably stored and protected against data corruption.

Efficiency
->The system should efficiently use server resources, such as CPU and memory, to provide fast response times.Avoid redundant or unnecessary data storage and processing to minimize resource consumption.

Modularity
->Divide the system into well-defined modules, such as user management, test creation, and scoring, to make it easier to develop, maintain, and upgrade.

Scalability
->Design the system architecture to allow adding more servers or instances to handle increased user traffic during peak times.

Safety
->Implement robust backup procedures and disaster recovery plans to ensure data integrity and availability in case of unexpected incidents.